.\"
.Dd May 08, 2019
.Dt gandi-tlsa-glue 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gandi-tlsa-glue
.Nd add TLSA records to Gandi domains
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dhv
.Op Fl i Ar cert|csr
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl t Ar ttl
.Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
tool allows you to add TLSA records to your Gandi
managed DNS zones.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width c_cert_csr_
.It Fl d
Don't do anything, just report what would be done.
.It Fl h
Display help and exit.
.It Fl i Ar cert|csr
Specify whether the input file is a certificate or
a CSR.
If not specified, default to 'cert'.
.It Fl p Ar port
The port for which to add the record.
If not specified, defaults to 443.
.It Fl t Ar ttl
The TTL for the TLSA record.
If not specified, defaults to 3600.
.It Fl v
Be verbose.
Can be specified multiple times.
.El
.Sh DETAILS
.Nm
expects input files to be x509 certificates in PEM
format.
For each input file, it will then extract all SANs, and
for each SAN generate a TLSA record and attempt to add
the record to the Gandi DNS zone for the domain the
SAN is in.
.Pp
The TLSA record will be of type "3 1 1"; that is, it
will specify the SHA-256 hash of the Subject Public
Key of a Domain Issued Certificate.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following invocations illustrate common usage of
this tool.
.Pp
To generate TLSA records for (the default) port 443
for all names found in the certificate 'example.com.crt':
.Bd -literal -offset indent
gandi-tlsa-glue example.com.crt
.Ed
.Pp
To verbosely generate TLSA records from the CSR for
\'smtp.example.com' for use with STARTTLS in an
SMTP context (i.e., on port 25) with a TTL of 24
hours:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
gandi-tlsa-glue -v -v -v -i csr -t 86400 -p 25 smtp.example.com.csr
.Ed
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std 
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of this tool:
.Bl -tag -width GANDI_API_KEY
.It Ev GANDI_API_KEY
The API key to access the Gandi API.
.Pp
You can retrieve this key from the "Security" section
in the account admin panel at https://account.gandi.net/.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr openssl_req 1 ,
.Xr openssl_rsa 1 ,
.Xr openssl_x509 1 ,
http://doc.livedns.gandi.net/
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@netmeister.org
in May 2019.
.Sh BUGS
Please file bugs and feature requests by emailing the author.
